.TH PIDTRAIL 1 "2026-04-17" "pidtrail" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
pidtrail \- Linux process-scoped runtime investigator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pidtrail
.RB [ \-\-pid " PID | " \-\-process " NAME" ]
.RB [ \-\-duration " DURATION" ]
.RB [ \-\-json " PATH | " \-\-jsonl " PATH" ]
.RB [ \-\-report\-dir " DIR" ]
.RB [ \-\-diagnose ]
.RB [ \-\-quiet ]
.P
.B pidtrail
.RB [ options ]
.B \-\-
.I COMMAND
.RI [ ARGS... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pidtrail
is a Linux-first runtime investigator for authorized debugging, incident response, and security research.
.PP
The current implementation traces:
.IP \(bu 2
process lifecycle metadata for clone/fork-style child creation, exec, and exit
.IP \(bu 2
file-open metadata for
.BR openat (2)
and
.BR openat2 (2)
.IP \(bu 2
network metadata for
.BR connect (2),
.BR accept (2),
.BR accept4 (2),
and socket close events
.PP
It does not claim plaintext TLS visibility or packet payload capture.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-pid PID
Attach to a specific PID.
.TP
.B \-\-process NAME
Track processes whose command name matches exactly.
.TP
.B \-\-duration DURATION
Optional trace duration, for example
.BR 30s .
.TP
.B \-\-json PATH
Write collected events as JSON.
.TP
.B \-\-jsonl PATH
Write collected events as JSON Lines.
.TP
.B \-\-report\-dir DIR
Write a report bundle containing
.I events.jsonl
and
.IR summary.json .
.TP
.B \-\-diagnose
Check runtime support conditions and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Disable terminal output.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Attach to a PID:
.B sudo pidtrail \-\-pid 1234
.TP
Track a process name:
.B sudo pidtrail \-\-process curl
.TP
Launch and trace a command:
.B sudo pidtrail \-\-report\-dir report \-\- /usr/bin/curl https://example.com
.TP
Run diagnostics:
.B sudo pidtrail \-\-pid 1234 \-\-diagnose
.SH SECURITY NOTES
Use only on systems and processes you are authorized to inspect. Captured metadata may still contain sensitive file paths, process names, and network endpoints.

